So now what do we have?
Well, we have an automation repo for
an aws-network, and
we have an automation repo for
an aws-cluster.
So here again is one of the great
parts about automation.
Once you create your automation repos,
you can essentially deploy them, right?
Now, there's a couple of things we know,
which is we know we need workspaces.
We know we need to connect it to VCS, and
we also know at some point we have
to configure these things, right?
So we gotta do all three of these.
We gotta create repos,
we got to connect them to VCS,
and then we have to add
the environment variables and
all the other variables we need so
that it can run properly.
Cuz right now, if it tried connecting
to Amazon, do you think it would work?
>> Probably not.
>> Probably not, yeah,
because we don't have any of that, yeah.
So what we're gonna do, is we're
gonna go back into our main tfe repo.
Make sure to pull in so you got your
latest changes, and then git checkout- b.
And this one we're gonna call
feature/add-resources or addworkspaces,
we'll call it addworkspaces.
So feature/addworkspaces, okay,
so now we're on a new branch.
What file do you think I would go into?
>> Locals.
>> Locals, exactly, yep.
Now, I'm gonna copy and
paste some code here, but
remember, always reference
the branch in the repo if you need.
All right, so you can go to the FEM1,
this is cluster,
let me go to the Terraform one,
yeah, tfe and
if we go to 5 we should
be able to go to locals,
and if we keep scrolling, look at this.
Whoa, wait a minute, variables?
What do you mean variables?
This is another great
part about Terraform.
We don't need to add variables anywhere
else because Terraform Cloud can
store variables.
So what this means is all you have to do
is create a repository for your automation
and then deploy it to a workspace, and
that's exactly what we're gonna do.
So I'm gonna copy this workspace,
the ECI AWS network workspace and
then I'm gonna copy
the cluster workspace as well.
There's two of them there,
ECI cluster, an ECI AWS network, okay?
And remember, this is in the terraform-tfe
repo under the fifth branch, yes.
>> I do you notice the second
one is titled cluster prod?
>> Yep, as we said before,
the cluster has to be an environment.
And we've also said that we can't have the
same name for the same resource twice, so
we have to put a unique separator there,
which in this case is the environment.
So I'm gonna paste all of that in.
I'm gonna just double check everything,
make sure it all looks good.
So remote, look at this already set to
remote, bam, out of the box, right?
Because there's nothing needed, it knows
the automation that it needs to look at,
and it's just gonna run it.
Now, the important change or
difference is this part right here,
we haven't introduced this yet, right?
This is what makes it so that you
can programmatically configure your
workspaces without having
to go into the UI.
This also makes it so
that if you wanna rename a network or
anything else, you actually go here.
There's no need for a workspace for the
specific repo and one to one and all that
stuff because we're gonna make a lot of
networks potentially in the future right?
So what we're really trying to do is is
we're trying to make a multi use repo, and
then just attach workspaces to it
with different variables, right?
And that'll make it so
that we have different networks, okay?
So in this case we have our variables
array and then inside of it
we have a terraform value, so
it says category terraform.
Remember how we had environment
variables and terraform variables?
This is how you differentiate those two,
if I wanted to have an environment
variables, I would just say M or
environment, one or two, I don't remember.
HCL is important in
circumstances like this.
When you have like an array, or an object,
or a map, or something like that,
that requires parsing, you actually have
to tell it that it's an HCL or HCL value.
That's because you can also do not, you
just do basic strings and stuff like that.
So if you're doing in a scenario where
you're like I wanna pass an array to my
workspace then I want to do that
through Terraform cloud you would then
make sure that it's an HCL
variable that you're using.
You'll notice that on
the second one though,
I don't have that I just have
category key and value, right?
That's because these ones,
these aren't HCL values and
remember I told you before there's a way
to where you can actually make it so
that there are like the same defaults.
So you don't always have
to add these values.
So to make that work,
there is one other change we need to do,
which is we need to go
to the main.tf file.
And if you scroll down,
we'll see that we now have a try and
a variable is being
added to our workspace.
See that?
So I'm gonna go to main, And
then I'm gonna paste in my variables.
Now this try is a nice little
function that Terraform provides.
Which will make it so
that if this is not even populated,
it will return with an array at least,
so it doesn't break anything, right?
So that's why we put the try there.
We don't have to put tries for
anything else,
because technically those variables
are being passed to the variables module.
So that module then must have
tries inside of it to know for
the circumstances of when we
are using the HCl value or not and
stuff like that so
that's very helpful for us, right?
So that's the network and on top of it
that's also us make making sure that
the workspace is wired in
the way that we need, okay?
So let's go back to this really
quickly and let's look at the cluster.
Because again, like you said, there was
a couple interesting things about this
workspace compared to the other ones.
For starters, it's got an environment
attached to it, right?
Well, the reason for
this is because if I did this and
then I tried to create multiple clusters,
would it work?
Nope, we'd have a conflict, so there still
is a bit of work that you have to do here.
Now I'm gonna show you a little later how
we can even save ourselves more time, but
I think you might even start seeing how
that's possible, right, with our for
loops and stuff like that.
I showed you it with AZs and
subnets, right,
all that kind of stuff,
it's the same paradigm here.
Now, if we go to the cluster, you'll see
that cluster also has variables, right?
And one of them is our don't look at that,
it's the variables that
was in our repository.
So let's take a quick step back one more
time and look at our chart, all right?
So we've got TerraForm cloud and then
we've got our workspaces down here, right?
You mustn't forget that this guy is gonna
go back, so that it can come back down and
change other things And
we said in the network module that we
wanna make this customizable, right?
We can, in Terraform TFV,
it does not just become something
that manages workspaces, but
it's also the source of truth for
pretty much most of your configuration
of your infrastructure, right?
These repositories
are meant to be dynamic.
They're meant to be plug and
play where I could give you it and
you could run it just like
like we're doing right now.
The only thing that makes them unique to
you is the variables that you pass to
the workspace, right?
So in this circumstance what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna give myself a domain, so
I'm gonna say, okay,
well I own the domain altofor.dev.
So that's what my cluster
is gonna point to, right?
Anything on this domain when
we set it up for a service,
it will then be something
like service.altifordev.
We have ingress routing out of the box.
Let me say that one more time for
you guys, we have ingress routing
out of the box, this is very difficult and
annoying to do, right?
But when you can think about like okay,
the cluster needs this, it needs that,
it needs this, it needs that,
it's just really easy to reproduce
these environments, right?
So we know that our environment is prod,
right?
And then the other thing you'll see
here is is it wants me to actually name
the cluster.
So I'm gonna put my name in here,
so I'm just gonna say E-Reinert.
I recommend you guys doing the same, and
to be honest, they need to be unique
because for this course, it's just to make
sure that you don't run over anything.
So just give it your name,
first initial, last name, and
then the last thing we're gonna do is,
is we're gonna create a VPC
name variable that points
to our F-E-M-E-C-I-V-P-C.
Well, where is that?
You might ask, do you see it?
What line is it on?
What line is that workspace referencing?
>> WPC name four, three lines above
>> The network name,
yeah, so the network name here, right,
is now being used as the VPC name for
the cluster here.
See how those legos connect?
This is why we create our own modules and
create our own opinions around variables.
Because if you try and
just use resources every time,
you're just gonna constantly fall into
problems, because they are so generalized.
That it's better for
you to make opinions around them and
then keep making those
opinions on your own.
Instead of saying like I'm just gonna
always keep using the same resources and
just juggling all this stuff, make it
easier on yourself, wrap them in a module.
Give it some inputs give
it some outputs and
then make it a workspace make it
composable, right, that's the goal here,
high composability,
that's really what we want, right?
Do we need the domain to be a route?
No, to be honest the domain does nothing
here [LAUGH] It's not actually attached to
anything.
It's just so that we can have
a domain value there to use, so
it just has to be a valid
top level domain.
So now that I've explained to you guys,
why we're doing what we're doing,
right, let's provision some
infrastructure [LAUGH].
So we're gonna do init really quick,
just to make sure, I'm sorry,
not init my about validate,
validate, do validate, cool.
So the validate looks good,
awesome, so now let's commit.
So let's do, Yeah, git add.
What were the files?
Sorry, git status,
git add, locals, and main,
git status git commit-m added resource or
added,
we'll say added workspaces and
then we'll push.
Create a PR, again,
you can navigate to the repo if you want.
Now, it's funny [LAUGH] is
you're like five repos in, and
this is your first PR to Terraform tfe.
[LAUGH] So that gives you an idea
of how much is required to set up
before you can actually get
into this approval process.
But if we look here, okay,
cool here's all my changes let's go to
my up that's good that's a good sign.
So let's look here,
let's take a look at the plan, wow,
look at this automation, man, so nice.
So because we're using the module
underneath to create workspaces,
it has other automation inside of it.
So it knows, hey,
I'll make this variable for
you called azs, we'll go ahead and
populate that for you.
We'll do the same thing for cidr,
we'll do the same thing for name, right?
And then the cluster gets
to the exact same thing,
variable set, environment,
name, BPC name, right?
Cool, okay, so this looks good,
let's go back to our PR and
we're just gonna confirm and squash.
So now that we've merged our first PR to
terraform tfe, let's see what happens.
>> So it only does the plan on a branch,
but it doesn't let you commit.
>> Branches are just for tests, merging to
main will let you actually apply it, yeah.